There is no IGLU Cabal. Shlomi Fish has obtained a patent on certain key
technologies essential for existence of IGLU Cabals. He is available for
license negotiations only on February 29th of odd-numbered years, between
the hours 14:15:09-18:28:18.

People, who practice IGLU Cabalism without the appropriate patent
licenses, risk teleportation into the interior of exploding supernovae.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 1968
	(Re: A TINIC Sequel)
%
There is no IGLU Cabal!

Writing this sentence followed by an explanation has been patented by Omer
Zak in US patent No. 10943307*2^66452-1. Commenting on Omer's comment has
been patented by Shlomi Fish in US patent No. e^(i*pi). The sentence
itself is a trademark of Moshe Zadka.

The existence of these patents is the only explanation one needs for this
sentence.

	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 1515
%
There is no IGLU Cabal. Some Politically-Correct ISPs block E-mail which
comes from Hell. Unfortunately, some of the brightest minds needed for
the IGLU Cabal languish in Hell.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 2203
	("Do you want to send E-mail from hell?")
%
There is no IGLU Cabal! Its members spent a better time of their lives
writing an RDBM server in a purely functional programming language. After
having to deal with designing many FP-friendly algorithms, and dealing
with ugly code that was made uglier due to FP, they found the task
of maintaining the IGLU site too mundande and unchallenging.
 
	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 1964
%
There is no IGLU Cabal. The former Cabalists have been swallowed by the
black hole of MPPL (Most Powerful Programming Language) and find the
mundane programming problems posed by Linux kernel and applications to be
incredibly elementary, trivial and boring.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 1302
	("Most mind-expanding computer language?")
%
There is no IGLU Cabal! Its members can be arranged in N! orders to form
N! different Cabals. The algorithm to find which order formulates the
correct IGLU Cabal is NP-Complete.

	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 2071
%
There is no IGLU Cabal. The problem of founding an IGLU Cabal has been
proven, in a surprise move, to be equivalent to the question of existence
of God, fully-tolerant religions and NP-complete oracles.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 2060
%
There is no IGLU Cabal! Home-made Cabals eventually superceded the power
and influence of the original IGLU Cabal, which was considered a cutting
edge development at its time.
 
	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 2001
	("Pentium 100 == Cray 1 (?)")
%
There is an IGLU Cabal, but its only purpose is to deny the existence
of an IGLU Cabal

	Martha Greenberg in Hackers-IL message No. 2057
%
There is no IGLU cabal! The former cabalists are trying to prove the
correctness of a program that prove the correctness of proofs of other
programs.

	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 2607
	("Proving the Correctness of a Proof")
%
There is no IGLU Cabal! They had to write a web application in an API
(which chose to remain nameless) in which one has to call CreateFile with
6 or 7 arguments just to open a file. By the time they were finished,
someone wrote a 30-line perl script that did exactly the same thing.
 
	Shlomi Fish in Hackers-IL message No. 1871
	("Perl vs. JavaScript ASP with IIS")
%
The information transmitted is intended to be ignored by the person or
entity in front of whom it appeared and may contain useless and/or
misleading material.  Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other
abuse of, or taking of any action of any kind because of this misinformation
by persons, animals,  aliens, or cosmic entities other than the unintended
recipient is bad karma.   If you received this error, please send your
paycheck to the sender and delete everything on the hard drive of your 
computer.

	Geoffrey S. Mendelson in Linux-IL message /02/09/msg00066.html
%
This sender of this e-mail is privileged and has protexia with people in
high places. Don't ask, they are in high places. You could not have
received it in error, we know what we are doing. If it has any scandal
or gossip value please notify the newspapers,  television and radio by
e-mail and then delete everything from your system.   Please copy it and
use it for any purposes, and especially  disclose its  contents to the
press:  to do so would be exactly what we really wanted. This disclaimer
is to cover our you-know-what if it ever got out that we sent it to you.
Thank you for your co-operation.  Please dial 911 if you need
assistance.

	Geoffrey S. Mendelson in Linux-IL message 02/09/msg00090.html
%
Ally McBeal as a Software House:
--------------------------------

Richard Fish - the methodology gury, usually does not actually write code.
  But he does stress doing things the right way (not in PHB sense, but in
  hacker sense).
Ally McBeal - the brilliant female hacker.  Her code is mixture of
  brilliancy - both in getting the job done, and in the quality of bugs
  which go into it.
"Biscuit" - would be the type who does not think twice of embedding a
  string representing a Scheme script into an assembly language device
  driver, and invoking Guile from it.

Other participants - left as homework.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message 2819
%
On Tue, Dec 16, 2003, Shaul Karl wrote about "Re: Various performance
problems":
> On Tue, Dec 16, 2003 at 11:42:49AM +0200, Nadav Har'El wrote:
> > 
> >       I'm guessing that TLS (thread local storage, NOT transport layer
> > security)
> 
> 
>   Is there any work to remove this name clash?

Yes, the Thread-Local-Storage people were annoyed by this clash, and
decided to change their name. The new name they came up was "Storing
Stuff Locally", or SSL for short.

    Nadav Har'El on Linux-IL
    (http://www.mail-archive.com/linux-il@cs.huji.ac.il/msg31801.html)	
%
NOTE:  the question of existence of the IGLU Cabal is not on-topic
anymore, as it was already discussed from all possible angles in Signature
lines of few regular Hackers-IL participants.  This is besides the fact
that the IGLU Cabal Does Not Exist, and Hamakor officially denies any
relationship with the IGLU Cabal.

	Omer Zak in Hackers-IL message No. 3954
	( http://groups.yahoo.com/group/hackers-il/message/3954 )
%
[Hackers-IL discusses what is on-topic and off-topic there]

Hey Omer,

Pretty thorough list, but you forgot:

More typical subjects for Hackers-IL:
- Shlomi Fish
- Meta-discussions about Shlomi Fish
- Discussions about what is off-topic or not
- Meta-discussions about whether discussion about what is off-topic or
not, is off-topic or not
- List of typical subjects for Hackers-IL
- Literal ways to make any discussion infinitely recursive

	Tal Rotbart in Hackers-IL message No. 3965
	( http://groups.yahoo.com/group/hackers-il/message/3965 )
%
You can easily install the binary distribution of Mozilla (from mozilla.org) 
on a different prefix, possibly under your home directory. Please install it 
and use it instead of Mozilla 1.1, at least when verifying if problems
indeed exist. I do not wish to tolerate any more reports of problems when
using Mozilla 1.1, because I can't tell if it's a bug that was fixed by 
then, or if it's an actual issue with Mozilla.

On a slightly different note: my machine crashed the other day when using it 
with kernel 2.6.0. Can anyone help?

	Shlomi Fish on discussions@hamakor.org.il
%
> > On a slightly different note: my machine crashed the other day when
> > using it with kernel 2.6.0. Can anyone help?
> 
> I do not wish to tolerate any reports of problems when using  kernel
> 2.6.0, because I can't tell if it's a bug that was fixed by then, or
> if it's an actual issue with the kernel.

My Commodore 64 is suffering from slowness and insufficiency of memory;
and its display device is grievously short of pixels.  Can anyone help?	

	Shlomi Fish, Muli Ben Yehuda and Omer Zak on
	discussions@hamakor.org.il.
%
> > My Commodore 64 is suffering from slowness and insufficiency of memory;
> > and its display device is grievously short of pixels.  Can anyone help?
>
> I can give you 64K of memory to make it a Commodore 128, it will be just
> like brand new. I'll throw in a disk drive so you can dump the
> cassettes, they are obsolete these days.

Leave your Commodore alone, this platform does not allow good scaling, even 
doubling RAM amount... I think it's good time to upgrade to XT. You can even 
install another 8088 instead of 8087 co-processor. Dual-CPU system would 
allow greater throughput in multiuser enviroment. Yes, I know it demands 
bigger initial investment, but the ROI is guaranteed in no more than 2
years.	

	Omer Zak, Baruch Even and Alexey Maslennikov on
	discussions@hamakor.org.il
%
Dear Mz. Agmon,

What a horrid and nasty post you made. You absolutely lack ANY sense of
humour, human and human feelings as well as even an inkling of the
rediculous.

Can you not get it in your head that Shlomi, is promoting the cause of
free-range chickens, defending their poor brethren rights, protesting
their distreatment with the heANDS OF NASTI AND HORRIBLE PEOPL WHO RAIZE
CHIKINS IN REAL SMALL CAGES WHERE MY FATHER WHO WAS THE MINISTER OF OIL
PRODUCTION IN OUR GLORIOUS CUNTRY WAS MURDERED BY THE DEPRAVED
MERCERNAIES IMPORETED FROM IZREAL BY THE FASCUITIC PRES. SESESCLUCK. HOW
EVER MY FATHER HAS SEKVESTRED $16,750,962.23 (SIXTEEN MILLION, SEVEN
HUNDRT, NEIN HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO US DOLARS AND TWENTY-THREE CENTS) IN
AN UNNUMBERED ACCOUNT IN THE BANK OF OUR CUNTRY.

I LIKE TO SHARE THA STASH WITH YOU IF YOU ONLY SEND ME A BIG BOX MADE OF
EGG CONTAINERS AND A SMALL TICKET TO BORA-BORA, BUISNES CLASS, PLEZ.

	Marc A. Volovic in a Linux-IL Message - http://xrl.us/icnd
%
Hello, mein kinder.

While both Gilad and yours truly are indubitably and inalienably right, it
is often that clients in their infinite (the hands - they have a life of
their own and will not type "wisdom") perversity will ask for such
wonderful contraptions as RTAI kernel running in RedHat 7.2 distribution
with Mozilla 1.5 backported into it, the whole thing shouldred a-la the
Tokya Underground at 7am into a 16MB NAND flash running with a proprietary
driver (Gilad - we know the culprits, do we not?)...

What should the indie, the consultant, the Gitche Manitou of the right
solution, do in such a case? Shove the right thing down the client's gullet
(I did that, it is very trying to shove a 48-node cluster down ANYONE's
gullet and, truth be told, not very hygienic)? Let the client blithfully
trundle towards his/her/its doom? Lie outright, say you do this, do the
other? What?

Jonathan? Gilad? Gil? Shahar? Oron? Danny? Lior?

    Marc A. Volovic in a Linux-IL Message:
    http://www.mail-archive.com/linux-il%40cs.huji.ac.il/msg44324.html
%
> I am looking for a Python trainer so we can start offering
> Python training to our customers.

Must... Resist... Oh what the heck.

(read with a heavy southern India accent)

Hello, my name is Ashish Khare, I've been a python trainer for
fourteen years under the great Ranjan of Pushkar, I would love to
train any python that you have, I also do cobra and rattle snakes. I
am highly experienced and my pythons have only bitten 3 people so far,
one of them tried to actually grab it by the teeth, imagine that. No
fatalities so far. I have my own basket and flute and willing to
relocate.

Please call Ashish +91 (98) 1137-7803 for more details.

    Arik Baratz in http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.comp.python.israel/427
%
Let the next version be good and full of eye-candy.
Let the FUD spreaders begone and vanish.
Let us be CAR and not CDR.
Let our features outweigh our bugs.
Let our patches be approved and committed.
Let our code spread in torrents.

Hacky New Year :-)

    Beni Cherniavsky blessing for the new Hebrew Year in
    http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/hackers-il/message/4725
%
Since you are running a proprietary closed source system like Weblogics 
and Solaris, I suggest you call their customer support.

Sun and Weblogics both told me that their customer support is their key 
differentiator and competitive advantage over Open Source in the telecom 
service provider market in order to ensure
high availability of mission critical systems.

God - I love the way those buzz-words just roll off my keyboard.....

Best regards and good luck - this is a Linux/FOSS forum....sorry if you 
think I'm a snob but I had a similar problem with the Sun Java 
application server a few years ago and it took Sun 3 months to admit 
they didnt know the answer....

    Danny L on Linux-IL in:
    http://www.mail-archive.com/linux-il%40cs.huji.ac.il/msg45715.html
%
I installed Linux (first Red Hat, then Mandrake) for my mom a few years ago. 
The reason: her TV card refused to work properly in Windows no matter what we
tried. So she was extremely happy with Linux and hardly bugged me at all. And
believe me, she's rather clueless on the computer (she does stuff like opening
a doc file in word and choosing "save as.." in order to rename a file :).

Anyways, she was using linux happily, w/ a dual boot to Windows which she
hardly used, and then my brother convinced her to let him install Windows
instead. 

Now, she keeps calling everyone every week or two with problems in her Windows
and she really misses her Linux... (she misses the uptime, the multiple
desktops, the fact that things didn't suddenly break and stop working for no
reason, her games - Aisleriot, PySol, LBreakOut 2, and other things I can't
think of right now.) 

Oh, and about the command line, back then when she tried to shut down her
linux, sometimes some process needed manual killing, so I gave her the set of
commands she needed to type in the command line and she had no problem doing
that. In fact, she preferred doing that than, say, dragging some file in
Windows, because for her it's easier to give the computer some commands she
doesn't really understand than to start trying to figure out "intuitive"
GUI...

    Netta El-Al in:
    http://mirror.hamakor.org.il/archives/linux-il/05-2005/15319.html
%
Quoting Nir Simionovich, from the post of Mon, 02 Apr:
> Hi All,
>  
>   I'm trying to arrange an Asterisk weekend of code, with the purpose of

I see this as a direct attack on datyim, people with children, people
who work during the week and want to rest on the weekend but don't have
children, people who like to go diving on weekends in Eilat, soldiers on
weekend duty (without children), people who don't know Hebrew, and worst
of all: the vast majority of people who don't want Hebrew in the
Asterisk tools and DO have children but are not datiyim!

When will the biggotry end?

    Ira Abramov in:
    http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.region.israel/29847
